README.md, before:

<h1 style="text-decoration: none; border-bottom: none;">Battleship Game</h1>
<h3>Ahoooooy Sailors! Ready to navigate some rough waters?</h3>



#### ****Visit the live project below.****

  <a href="https://battleshipv2-80486db18913.herokuapp.com/" style="text-decoration: none;">👉 Click Here.</a>
 


![Alt text](assets/readme_images/crossplatforms.png)

## Content

* [Project Goals](#project-goals)

* [User Experience](#user-experience)
    - [User Stories](#user-stories)
    - [User Manual](#user-manual)

* [Design](#design)

* [Flow Chart](#flowchart)

* [Game Features](#game-features)
    - [Game Settings](#game-settings)

* [Technologies Used](#technologies-used)
    - [Python Libraries used](#python-libraries-used)

* [Testing](#testing)
    - [Manual Testing](#manual-testing)
    - [Validator Testing](#validator-testing)

* [Bugs & Fixed Bugs](#bugs-fixed-bugs)

* [Deployment](#Deployment)

* [Bugs & Fixed Bugs](#bugs-fixed-bugs)

* [Credits](#credits)

* [Acknowledgments](#acknowledgments)


 ## Project Goals





[Back to top](#)




## User Experience





[Back to top](#)

### User Stories



[Back to top](#)

### User Manual

**If you're new to Battleship check out this link** 👉 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Battleship
Sign in / registration for new Sailors, and simple Login for returning players

1. Start with a Sailor Sign in / registration for new Sailors, and simple Login for returning players,
    I've kept it straightforward, ensuring you can dive right in.

2. Once you've been greeted by the sailor prompt and you're all set,
    it's time to decide on your game's layout. For a quick game, the 5x5 board is a perfect choice.

3. After setting up the board prompt, decide how many ships you'd like
    to hide on the game board. Remember: more ships on a smaller board means more chances to sink ships.

4. Next, determine the number of turns (or tries) you want for hunting those hidden ships.
    You can choose anywhere between 5-10 turns per game.

***Here's a hint:***
    If you've chosen the 5x5 board with 6 ships and go for 10 turns,
    get ready for an exciting round filled with sunken ships.

    Once your game concludes, the outcomes of your successful sinkings are displayed on the main game board, and ships left. Then, we'll ask: Ready for another round on the seas?

[Back to top](#)

## Design

- **Simplicity:** The design is straightforward,very simple and user-friendly.
- **Clean interface:** Using the 'clear' function, the screen is tidy after each prompt.


## Flowchart

👇 CLICK TO EXPAND BELOW <details><summary>A graphical representation of the game process</summary> 

![FlowChart](assets/readme_images/new_flowchart.png)

[Back to top](#)

</details>



## Game Features

  * ***Sign in / registration for new Sailors, and simple Login for returning players.***  

  
  !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! add more content hereee !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

  ## insert new image here!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

[Back to top](#)



### Game settings

1. **Prompted with the question if you ever sailed with us before?** 
2. **If you have sailed with us before you will simply login again.**
3. **If not you will be asked to create your Sail account**

### Then it's of to the internal Game settings you will be asked. 

5. **Choose between a 5x5 or an 8x8 board** 
6. **Decide on having between 2 to 6 ships**
7. **Determine how many turns to play**

[Back to top](#)




## Technologies used

[Python](https://www.python.org/)  -  The primary programming language for game development.

[Editor - VScode](https://code.visualstudio.com/)  -  All coding was conducted within this editor.

[Back to top](#)

### Python Libraries used

     Import os
     Import time
     from random import randint

## Testing 

- Pythontutor excellent for visually understanding and verifying how your code executes.

[Execution Visualization Tool](https://pythontutor.com/cp/composingprograms.html#mode=edit)


### Manual Testing


<details><summary>Username prompt</summary>

| **Feature**  | **Instruction**              | **User Input**           | **Expected Behavior**                   | **Actual Behavior** |
| :---         |    :----:                    |          :---:           |   :---:                                 |        ---:         |
| Game name    | Prompts user for name        | "Mats"                   | Returns the name "Mats"                 | Works as intended   |
|              | Please enter your name:      | Empty input              | Every sailor has a name? Try again!     | Works as intended   |
|              |                              | 12345678910              | Every sailor has a name? Not a number!  | Works as intended   | 

![Alt text](assets/readme_images/Username_prompt.png)


</details><br>

<details><summary>Select board size (5x5 or 8x8)</summary>

| **Feature**  | **Instruction**              | **User Input**           | **Expected Behavior**                   | **Actual Behavior** |
| :---         |    :----:                    |          :---:           |   :---:                                 |        ---:         |
| Board size   | Prompts user for 5x5 or 8x8 board| "5" or "8"           | Returns correct size                    | Works as intended   |
|              | Select board size (5x5 or 8x8): | Empty input           | Please select a valid! board size (5x5 or 8x8)     | Works as intended   |
|              |                              | 1111              | invalid size. Please choose between (5x5 or 8x8)?  | Works as intended   | 

![Alt text](assets/readme_images/select_board_size.png)


</details><br>

<details><summary>Number of ships</summary>

| **Feature**  | **Instruction**              | **User Input**           | **Expected Behavior**                   | **Actual Behavior** |
| :---         |    :----:                    |          :---:           |   :---:                                 |        ---:         |
| Number of ships | Choose the number of ships? (2-6):| "2","3","4" "6"      |  Returns correct number (5 or 10)       | Works as intended   |
|              |                              | Empty input              |  Please enter a valid number between 2 and 6   | Works as intended   |
|              |                              | "8" "9"                  |  Invalid number! Please choose between 2 and 6 ships? | Works as intended   | 

![Alt text](assets/readme_images/select_ships.png)


</details><br>



<details><summary>Number of turns ? </summary>

| **Feature**  | **Instruction**              | **User Input**           | **Expected Behavior**                   | **Actual Behavior** |
| :---         |    :----:                    |          :---:           |   :---:                                 |        ---:         |
| Number of turns ? | How many turns ? (5-10):| "5" or "10"               | Returns correct size                    | Works as intended   |
|              |                              | Empty input             | Please enter a valid number between (5 and 10) | Works as intended   |
|              |                              | 1                     | invalid turns! Select a number from (5 to 10)? | Works as intended   | 

![Alt text](assets/readme_images/empty_line_turns.png)
![Alt text](assets/readme_images/Invalid_number_turns.png)

</details><br>

<details><summary>Choose Row/Column (board size for test is 5x5)</summary>

| **Feature**  | **Instruction**              | **User Input**           | **Expected Behavior**                   | **Actual Behavior** |
| :---         |    :----:                    |          :---:           |   :---:                                 |        ---:         |
| Choose a row | Choose a row (0-5):          | "5"                      | Returns correct row                     | Works as intended   |
| Choose a col | Choose a col (0-5):          | "4"                      | Returns correct col                     | Works as intended   |
|              |                              | Empty input              | Please enter a valid number             | Works as intended   | 
|              |                              | "9"  "10"                | Please pick a valid number (1-5)        | Works as intended   | 

![Alt text](assets/readme_images/row_5_col_4.png)
![Alt text](assets/readme_images/empty_row_col.png)
![Alt text](assets/readme_images/incorrect_number_row_col.png)
</details><br>


<details><summary>Ships left, Hits, Turns left</summary>

| **Feature**  | **Expected Behavior**        | **Actual Result**      |   
| :---         |    :----:                    |          ---:          |  
| Ships left: 6|   Ships left: 5              | Not working as intended| 
| Numbers of Hits: 1  | Numbers of Hits: 1    | Works as intended      | 
| Turns left: 2|    Turns left: 2             | Works as intended      |
|              |                              |                        | 


- **Issue with ships remaining** 
- Plan of action: When a ship is hit,remove one ship from count. 

![Alt text](assets/readme_images/ships_left_hits_turns.png)

**Issue with ships remaining**
- Resolved.

![Alt text](assets/readme_images/resolved_ship_issue.png)

</details><br>

<details><summary>Restart.</summary>

| **Feature**  | **Instruction**              | **User Input**           | **Expected Behavior**                   | **Actual Behavior** |
| :---         |    :----:                    |          :---:           |   :---:                                 |        ---:         |
| Restart the game| Ahoooy Sailor! try again? (y/n):| "n"                | Thank you for playing!                  | Works as intended   |
|              | Ahoooy Sailor! try again? (y/n):| "y"                   |                                         | Works as intended   |
|              | Ahoooy Sailor! try again? (y/n):| Empty input           | Please confirm with (y/n):           | Not working as intended! Works as intended |
|              |                              |               |               | | 

- ![Alt text](assets/readme_images/restart_no.png)

- ![Alt text](assets/readme_images/restart_yes.png)

- **Issue with restart prompt on Empty input.** 

 - ![Alt text](assets/readme_images/restart_empty.png)


- **Issue with restart prompt on Empty input Resolved!** 

- ![Alt text](assets/readme_images/Restart_working.png)

- ![Alt text](assets/readme_images/restart_linter.png)
</details><br>

[Back to top](#)


### Validator Testing

***keep your Python code neat and PEP 8 friendly.***
[Code Linter](https://pep8ci.herokuapp.com/)

<details><summary>CI Python Linter - Result</summary>

![Alt text](assets/readme_images/Ci_linter_last_check.png)

[Back to top](#)

</details><br>


## Bugs & Fixed Bugs

<details><summary>Wrong referenching in the turns_of_play = number_of_turns()</summary>

- ![Alt text](assets/readme_images/numbers_of_turns.png)
- Wrong referenching in the turns_of_play = number_of_turns()  
- print(f"number of turns {turns_of_play}")  # wrong referenching <---- turns_of_play! 

</details><br>

<details><summary>Corrected Wrong referenching in the turns_of_play</summary>

- ![Alt text](assets/readme_images/numbers_of_turns.png)
- Wrong referenching in the turns_of_play = number_of_turns()  
- print(f"number of turns {turns_of_play}")  # wrong referenching <---- turns_of_play! 

</details><br>

<details><summary>Printing the board and and hiding the ships.</summary>


- ![Alt text](assets/readme_images/print_rows_col_board.png)


```python
def print_board(board):
    """ Display the game board in the terminal """
    for i, row in enumerate(board):
        print_row = []
        for j, cell in enumerate(row):
            if cell == 'S':
                print_row.append('*')
            else:
                print_row.append(cell)
        print(" ".join(print_row))

```
![Alt text](<assets/readme_images/Screenshot 2023-08-09 143103.png>)

* Linter error message with the code above. 
''' 
	"code": "unused-variable",
	"severity": 4,
	"message": "Unused variable 'i'",
	"source": "pylint",
			
	"code": "unused-variable",
	"severity": 4,
	"message": "Unused variable 'j'",
	"source": "pylint",
	"startLineNumber": 135,
	'''
* Linter error message resolved. 
 '''
 for row in (board):
        print_row = []
        for cell in (row):
            if cell == 'S':
                print_row.append('*')
            else:
                print_row.append(cell)
        print(" ".join(print_row))
        '''

- ![Alt text](<assets/readme_images/Screenshot 2023-08-09 143410.png>)


</details><br>


<details><summary>Tested function using pythonTutor for step-by-step validation 
checking the cells for hit or miss.</summary>

```python

board_size = 5
total_ships = 10
name = "john"


board = build_board(board_size)
board_with_ships = ships_placement(board, total_ships)


def hit_or_miss(board, row, col):
    if board[row][col] == 'S':
        print(f"Great job Sailor {name}! That's a HIT..")
        return True
    return False


row, col = randint(0, board_size - 1), randint(0, board_size - 1)
test_hit = hit_or_miss(board_with_ships, row, col)


if test_hit:
    board_with_ships[row][col] = 'X'
else:
    board_with_ships[row][col] = 'M'
print_board(board_with_ships)


```
</details><br>

<details><summary>New usersname prompt with validation!</summary>


- More about isnumeric.
- https://stackoverflow.com/questions/63973777/cant-forbid-numbers-from-a-username-that-includes-alphabetical-characters

- ![Number test](<assets/readme_images/checking_for_ numbers.png>)


- ![blank name and number](assets/readme_images/numnber_blank_name.png)  

</details><br>

<details><summary>Restart loop</summary>

- restart game loop i found. 

- ![Alt text](assets/readme_images/restart_copy.png)
 - https://stackoverflow.com/questions/41718538/how-do-i-insert-a-restart-game-option

- was the same as inside of the game at the end, just looping on 'Y'
- ![Alt text](assets/readme_images/restart1.png)

- ![Alt text](assets/readme_images/restart2.png)

- not looping back to try again jumps back to run main again.
- ![Alt text](assets/readme_images/restart3.png)

- ![Alt text](assets/readme_images/restart4.png)

</details><br>

[Back to top](#)





## Deployment

[Backend Framework - Node.JS](https://nodejs.org/en)  -  Provided backend support for the game.

[Final Hosting Platform - Heroku](https://id.heroku.com/login)  -  The game was ultimately deployed and hosted on this platform.


[Back to top](#)




## Credits


***Login / Registration prompt***

The idea came from redoing the love sandwich walkthrough, the skimmed the internet until i came across this which was fit for what i have been thinking about to add to the project, to make it complete. 

The idea originated from revisiting the 'love sandwich' walkthrough. I serached the internet until I found this, 
which perfectly fitted with what I had in mind!

https://replit.com/talk/share/A-Simple-Login-System-using-Google-Sheets-API/20950

***Restart the game***

- https://stackoverflow.com/questions/41718538/how-do-i-insert-a-restart-game-option

- https://stackoverflow.com/questions/63973777/cant-forbid-numbers-from-a-username-that-includes-alphabetical-characters
  
  ***Helped to construct the board***

- https://www.programcreek.com/python/?CodeExample=print+board

- https://stackoverflow.com/questions/63318514/how-output-of-printprint-boardboard-is-printed-like-a-matrix-but-not-like-a

#### The turns 

- https://trinket.io/python/051179b6d3

- https://discuss.codecademy.com/t/excellent-battleship-game-written-in-python/430605


## Acknowledgments

I would like to acknowledge my mentor Mo Shami, for staring me in right direction.

Commit message:

Login_data.py: Fixed connection with the spreadsheet. Next steps: # Push data back from the prompt # Set up password hashing # And Fetching data back README: Updated with links to Argon2 documentation and how to use it. Requirements.txt: # Added installation dependencies # Included links to documentation

README.md, after:

<h1 style="text-decoration: none; border-bottom: none;">Battleship Game</h1>
<h3>Ahoooooy Sailors! Ready to navigate some rough waters?</h3>



#### ****Visit the live project below.****

  <a href="https://battleshipv2-80486db18913.herokuapp.com/" style="text-decoration: none;">👉 Click Here.</a>
 


![Alt text](assets/readme_images/crossplatforms.png)

## Content

* [Project Goals](#project-goals)

* [User Experience](#user-experience)
    - [User Stories](#user-stories)
    - [User Manual](#user-manual)

* [Design](#design)

* [Flow Chart](#flowchart)

* [Game Features](#game-features)
    - [Game Settings](#game-settings)

* [Technologies Used](#technologies-used)
    - [Python Libraries used](#python-libraries-used)

* [Testing](#testing)
    - [Manual Testing](#manual-testing)
    - [Validator Testing](#validator-testing)

* [Bugs & Fixed Bugs](#bugs-fixed-bugs)

* [Deployment](#Deployment)

* [Bugs & Fixed Bugs](#bugs-fixed-bugs)

* [Credits](#credits)

* [Acknowledgments](#acknowledgments)


 ## Project Goals





## Installtion 

Clone the repository:
Go to the project folders:
install the required libraries using this command:
***"pip install -r requirements.txt"*** in the terminal. 


## Dependencies 
requirements.txt file contains following libraries: 

- gspread
- oauth2client
- passlib[argon2]




[Back to top](#)




## User Experience





[Back to top](#)

### User Stories



[Back to top](#)

### User Manual

**If you're new to Battleship check out this link** 👉 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Battleship

1. Start with a Sailor Sign in / registration for new Sailors, and simple Login for returning players,
    I've kept it straightforward, ensuring you can dive right in.

2. Once you've been greeted by the sailor prompt and you're all set,
    it's time to decide on your game's layout. For a quick game, the 5x5 board is a perfect choice.

3. After setting up the board prompt, decide how many ships you'd like
    to hide on the game board. Remember: more ships on a smaller board means more chances to sink ships.

4. Next, determine the number of turns (or tries) you want for hunting those hidden ships.
    You can choose anywhere between 5-10 turns per game.

***Here's a hint:***
    If you've chosen the 5x5 board with 6 ships and go for 10 turns,
    get ready for an exciting round filled with sunken ships.

    Once your game concludes, the outcomes of your successful sinkings are displayed on the main game board, and ships left. Then, we'll ask: Ready for another round on the seas?

[Back to top](#)

## Design

- **Simplicity:** The design is straightforward,very simple and user-friendly.
- **Clean interface:** Using the 'clear' function, the screen is tidy after each prompt.


## Flowchart

👇 CLICK TO EXPAND BELOW <details><summary>A graphical representation of the game process</summary> 

![FlowChart](assets/readme_images/new_flowchart.png)

[Back to top](#)

</details>



## Game Features

  * ***Sign in / registration for new Sailors, and simple Login for returning players.***  

  
  !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! add more content hereee !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

  ## insert new image here!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

[Back to top](#)



### Game settings

1. **Prompted with the question if you ever sailed with us before?** 
2. **If you have sailed with us before you will simply login again.**
3. **If not you will be asked to create your Sail account**

### Then it's of to the internal Game settings you will be asked. 

5. **Choose between a 5x5 or an 8x8 board** 
6. **Decide on having between 2 to 6 ships**
7. **Determine how many turns to play**

[Back to top](#)




## Technologies used

[Python](https://www.python.org/)  -  The primary programming language for game development.

[Editor - VScode](https://code.visualstudio.com/)  -  All coding was conducted within this editor.

[Back to top](#)

### Python Libraries used

     Import os
     Import time
     from random import randint

## Testing 

- Pythontutor excellent for visually understanding and verifying how your code executes.

[Execution Visualization Tool](https://pythontutor.com/cp/composingprograms.html#mode=edit)


### Manual Testing


<details><summary>Username prompt</summary>

| **Feature**  | **Instruction**              | **User Input**           | **Expected Behavior**                   | **Actual Behavior** |
| :---         |    :----:                    |          :---:           |   :---:                                 |        ---:         |
| Game name    | Prompts user for name        | "Mats"                   | Returns the name "Mats"                 | Works as intended   |
|              | Please enter your name:      | Empty input              | Every sailor has a name? Try again!     | Works as intended   |
|              |                              | 12345678910              | Every sailor has a name? Not a number!  | Works as intended   | 

![Alt text](assets/readme_images/Username_prompt.png)


</details><br>

<details><summary>Select board size (5x5 or 8x8)</summary>

| **Feature**  | **Instruction**              | **User Input**           | **Expected Behavior**                   | **Actual Behavior** |
| :---         |    :----:                    |          :---:           |   :---:                                 |        ---:         |
| Board size   | Prompts user for 5x5 or 8x8 board| "5" or "8"           | Returns correct size                    | Works as intended   |
|              | Select board size (5x5 or 8x8): | Empty input           | Please select a valid! board size (5x5 or 8x8)     | Works as intended   |
|              |                              | 1111              | invalid size. Please choose between (5x5 or 8x8)?  | Works as intended   | 

![Alt text](assets/readme_images/select_board_size.png)


</details><br>

<details><summary>Number of ships</summary>

| **Feature**  | **Instruction**              | **User Input**           | **Expected Behavior**                   | **Actual Behavior** |
| :---         |    :----:                    |          :---:           |   :---:                                 |        ---:         |
| Number of ships | Choose the number of ships? (2-6):| "2","3","4" "6"      |  Returns correct number (5 or 10)       | Works as intended   |
|              |                              | Empty input              |  Please enter a valid number between 2 and 6   | Works as intended   |
|              |                              | "8" "9"                  |  Invalid number! Please choose between 2 and 6 ships? | Works as intended   | 

![Alt text](assets/readme_images/select_ships.png)


</details><br>



<details><summary>Number of turns ? </summary>

| **Feature**  | **Instruction**              | **User Input**           | **Expected Behavior**                   | **Actual Behavior** |
| :---         |    :----:                    |          :---:           |   :---:                                 |        ---:         |
| Number of turns ? | How many turns ? (5-10):| "5" or "10"               | Returns correct size                    | Works as intended   |
|              |                              | Empty input             | Please enter a valid number between (5 and 10) | Works as intended   |
|              |                              | 1                     | invalid turns! Select a number from (5 to 10)? | Works as intended   | 

![Alt text](assets/readme_images/empty_line_turns.png)
![Alt text](assets/readme_images/Invalid_number_turns.png)

</details><br>

<details><summary>Choose Row/Column (board size for test is 5x5)</summary>

| **Feature**  | **Instruction**              | **User Input**           | **Expected Behavior**                   | **Actual Behavior** |
| :---         |    :----:                    |          :---:           |   :---:                                 |        ---:         |
| Choose a row | Choose a row (0-5):          | "5"                      | Returns correct row                     | Works as intended   |
| Choose a col | Choose a col (0-5):          | "4"                      | Returns correct col                     | Works as intended   |
|              |                              | Empty input              | Please enter a valid number             | Works as intended   | 
|              |                              | "9"  "10"                | Please pick a valid number (1-5)        | Works as intended   | 

![Alt text](assets/readme_images/row_5_col_4.png)
![Alt text](assets/readme_images/empty_row_col.png)
![Alt text](assets/readme_images/incorrect_number_row_col.png)
</details><br>


<details><summary>Ships left, Hits, Turns left</summary>

| **Feature**  | **Expected Behavior**        | **Actual Result**      |   
| :---         |    :----:                    |          ---:          |  
| Ships left: 6|   Ships left: 5              | Not working as intended| 
| Numbers of Hits: 1  | Numbers of Hits: 1    | Works as intended      | 
| Turns left: 2|    Turns left: 2             | Works as intended      |
|              |                              |                        | 


- **Issue with ships remaining** 
- Plan of action: When a ship is hit,remove one ship from count. 

![Alt text](assets/readme_images/ships_left_hits_turns.png)

**Issue with ships remaining**
- Resolved.

![Alt text](assets/readme_images/resolved_ship_issue.png)

</details><br>

<details><summary>Restart.</summary>

| **Feature**  | **Instruction**              | **User Input**           | **Expected Behavior**                   | **Actual Behavior** |
| :---         |    :----:                    |          :---:           |   :---:                                 |        ---:         |
| Restart the game| Ahoooy Sailor! try again? (y/n):| "n"                | Thank you for playing!                  | Works as intended   |
|              | Ahoooy Sailor! try again? (y/n):| "y"                   |                                         | Works as intended   |
|              | Ahoooy Sailor! try again? (y/n):| Empty input           | Please confirm with (y/n):           | Not working as intended! Works as intended |
|              |                              |               |               | | 

- ![Alt text](assets/readme_images/restart_no.png)

- ![Alt text](assets/readme_images/restart_yes.png)

- **Issue with restart prompt on Empty input.** 

 - ![Alt text](assets/readme_images/restart_empty.png)


- **Issue with restart prompt on Empty input Resolved!** 

- ![Alt text](assets/readme_images/Restart_working.png)

- ![Alt text](assets/readme_images/restart_linter.png)
</details><br>

[Back to top](#)


### Validator Testing

***keep your Python code neat and PEP 8 friendly.***
[Code Linter](https://pep8ci.herokuapp.com/)

<details><summary>CI Python Linter - Result</summary>

![Alt text](assets/readme_images/Ci_linter_last_check.png)

[Back to top](#)

</details><br>


## Bugs & Fixed Bugs

<details><summary>Wrong referenching in the turns_of_play = number_of_turns()</summary>

- ![Alt text](assets/readme_images/numbers_of_turns.png)
- Wrong referenching in the turns_of_play = number_of_turns()  
- print(f"number of turns {turns_of_play}")  # wrong referenching <---- turns_of_play! 

</details><br>

<details><summary>Corrected Wrong referenching in the turns_of_play</summary>

- ![Alt text](assets/readme_images/numbers_of_turns.png)
- Wrong referenching in the turns_of_play = number_of_turns()  
- print(f"number of turns {turns_of_play}")  # wrong referenching <---- turns_of_play! 

</details><br>

<details><summary>Printing the board and and hiding the ships.</summary>


- ![Alt text](assets/readme_images/print_rows_col_board.png)


```python
def print_board(board):
    """ Display the game board in the terminal """
    for i, row in enumerate(board):
        print_row = []
        for j, cell in enumerate(row):
            if cell == 'S':
                print_row.append('*')
            else:
                print_row.append(cell)
        print(" ".join(print_row))

```
![Alt text](<assets/readme_images/Screenshot 2023-08-09 143103.png>)

* Linter error message with the code above. 
''' 
	"code": "unused-variable",
	"severity": 4,
	"message": "Unused variable 'i'",
	"source": "pylint",
			
	"code": "unused-variable",
	"severity": 4,
	"message": "Unused variable 'j'",
	"source": "pylint",
	"startLineNumber": 135,
	'''
* Linter error message resolved. 
 '''
 for row in (board):
        print_row = []
        for cell in (row):
            if cell == 'S':
                print_row.append('*')
            else:
                print_row.append(cell)
        print(" ".join(print_row))
        '''

- ![Alt text](<assets/readme_images/Screenshot 2023-08-09 143410.png>)


</details><br>


<details><summary>Tested function using pythonTutor for step-by-step validation 
checking the cells for hit or miss.</summary>

```python

board_size = 5
total_ships = 10
name = "john"


board = build_board(board_size)
board_with_ships = ships_placement(board, total_ships)


def hit_or_miss(board, row, col):
    if board[row][col] == 'S':
        print(f"Great job Sailor {name}! That's a HIT..")
        return True
    return False


row, col = randint(0, board_size - 1), randint(0, board_size - 1)
test_hit = hit_or_miss(board_with_ships, row, col)


if test_hit:
    board_with_ships[row][col] = 'X'
else:
    board_with_ships[row][col] = 'M'
print_board(board_with_ships)


```
</details><br>

<details><summary>New usersname prompt with validation!</summary>


- More about isnumeric.
- https://stackoverflow.com/questions/63973777/cant-forbid-numbers-from-a-username-that-includes-alphabetical-characters

- ![Number test](<assets/readme_images/checking_for_ numbers.png>)


- ![blank name and number](assets/readme_images/numnber_blank_name.png)  

</details><br>

<details><summary>Restart loop</summary>

- restart game loop i found. 

- ![Alt text](assets/readme_images/restart_copy.png)
 - https://stackoverflow.com/questions/41718538/how-do-i-insert-a-restart-game-option

- was the same as inside of the game at the end, just looping on 'Y'
- ![Alt text](assets/readme_images/restart1.png)

- ![Alt text](assets/readme_images/restart2.png)

- not looping back to try again jumps back to run main again.
- ![Alt text](assets/readme_images/restart3.png)

- ![Alt text](assets/readme_images/restart4.png)

</details><br>

[Back to top](#)





## Deployment



[Backend Framework - Node.JS](https://nodejs.org/en)  -  Provided backend support for the game.

[Final Hosting Platform - Heroku](https://id.heroku.com/login)  -  The game was ultimately deployed and hosted on this platform.







[Back to top](#)




## Credits


***Password hashing***
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/58431973/argon2-library-that-hashes-passwords-without-a-secret-and-with-a-random-salt-tha

***Login / Registration prompt***

The idea came from redoing the love sandwich walkthrough, the skimmed the internet until i came across this which was fit for what i have been thinking about to add to the project, to make it complete. 

The idea originated from revisiting the 'love sandwich' walkthrough. I serached the internet until I found this, 
which perfectly fitted with what I had in mind!

https://replit.com/talk/share/A-Simple-Login-System-using-Google-Sheets-API/20950

***Restart the game***

- https://stackoverflow.com/questions/41718538/how-do-i-insert-a-restart-game-option

- https://stackoverflow.com/questions/63973777/cant-forbid-numbers-from-a-username-that-includes-alphabetical-characters
  
  ***Helped to construct the board***

- https://www.programcreek.com/python/?CodeExample=print+board

- https://stackoverflow.com/questions/63318514/how-output-of-printprint-boardboard-is-printed-like-a-matrix-but-not-like-a

#### The turns 

- https://trinket.io/python/051179b6d3

- https://discuss.codecademy.com/t/excellent-battleship-game-written-in-python/430605


## Acknowledgments

I would like to acknowledge my mentor Mo Shami, for staring me in right direction.
